doc improvement: gs_modifying: update build type sections (#6121)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/gs_modifying.rst

Adding files and changing compiler settings
*******************************************

The |NCS| build system is based on Zephyr, that has build system based on `CMake`_.
For more information see :ref:`application`.

The application or sample in the |NCS| is a `CMake`_ project.
As such it controls the configuration and build process of both itself, Zephyr and any sourced libraries.
The application's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is the main `CMake`_ project file and the source of the build process configuration.

> The Zephyr creates a `CMake`_ component that must be imported by the application in its :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.

Reviewer: Maybe worth mentioning that this is usually achieved by `find_package(Zephyr HINTS $ENV{ZEPHYR_BASE})` command in CMake so a user knows which instruction this text refers to?

When imported the application will be able to reference items provided by both Zephyr and the |NCS|.

Importing the Zephyr `CMake`_ component will create an `app` library.
All files that your application uses must be added to the `app` library.
This is done directly in the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file or files that are sourced by it.

The application has full control over the build process it can impact compiler options, application defines, or include directories.
It can also define how and which libraries are linked with `app` library.
The above is done using standard `CMake`_ commands or commands provided by the Zephyr `CMake`_ component.

Note that Zephyr provides a :kconfig:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` option to add compiler flags visible during entire build process.

To update the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file, either edit it directly or use |SES| (SES) to maintain it.

Editing CMakeLists.txt directly
===============================

The files that your application uses must be added to the ``app`` library created by Zephyr.
This is done by ``target_sources`` function provided by `CMake`_.
You can use it directly in :file:`CMakeLists.txt`.

> In case you application is complex you may wish to split it into subdirectories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case your application is complex you may wish to split it into subdirectories.
```

> In such case these subdirectories can provide own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In such a case these subdirectories can provide own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.
```
?

Adding files and changing compiler settings
*******************************************

The |NCS| build system is based on Zephyr, whose build system is based on `CMake`_.

> For more information about how the build system works in Zephyr, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` and :ref:`zephyr:application` pages in the Zephyr documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about how the build system works in Zephyr, see the :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` and :ref:`zephyr:application` pages in the Zephyr documentation.
```
or

```suggestion
For more information about how the build system works in Zephyr, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` and :ref:`zephyr:application` in the Zephyr documentation.
```

Adding files and changing compiler settings
*******************************************

The |NCS| build system is based on Zephyr, whose build system is based on `CMake`_.
For more information about how the build system works in Zephyr, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` and :ref:`zephyr:application` pages in the Zephyr documentation.

In the |NCS|, the application is a CMake project.

> As such, the application controls the configuration and build process of both itself, Zephyr, and sourced libraries.

Author: No, thanks for catching this.

The application's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is the main CMake project file and the source of the build process configuration.

Zephyr provides a CMake package that must be loaded by the application into its :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.
When loaded, the application is able to reference items provided by both Zephyr and the |NCS|.

Loading Zephyr's `CMake`_ package creates the ``app`` CMake target.

> All files that your application uses can be added to this target.

Author: This got rephrased.

> This can be done directly in the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file or in the files that are sourced by it.

Reviewer 3: "uses" is too vague. An application uses kernel source files and BT files etc.

Let's not explain add_subdirectory here, it is a CMake detail that is not necessary to understand at this point. So cut

"All files that your application uses can be added to this target.
This can be done directly in the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file or in the files that are sourced by it."

and add

"Application source files can be added to this target from the application :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file."

Author: This is a nice suggestion, thanks!

> This can be done directly in the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file or in the files that are sourced by it.

Author: This got rephrased.

To update the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file, either edit it directly or use |SES| (SES) to maintain it.

Editing CMakeLists.txt directly
===============================

> You must add all application source files to the ``app`` CMake target created by Zephyr.

Reviewer 3: It's redundant with the above IMHO and should be cut.

The next line can be reworded to:

"Adding source files can be done with the :c:func:`target_sources` function provided by CMake."

> You must add all application source files to the ``app`` CMake target created by Zephyr.

Author: Rephrased based on suggestion.

This can be done using the :c:func:`target_sources` function provided by CMake.

> You can use it directly in :file:`CMakeLists.txt`.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Cut it. Already explained above.

Pay attention to the following configuration options:

* If your application is complex, you can split it into subdirectories.

>   These subdirectories can provide their own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.

Reviewer 3: They, could, use, so the suggestion is incorrect/misleading.

>   These subdirectories can provide their own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.

Author: Confirmed with @pdunaj on Teams this is not a necessity.

> * To include several files, you can specify them with a wildcard.

Author: This got removed after talking to @pdunaj .

  For example, to include all :file:`.c` files from the :file:`src` folder, add the following lines to your :file:`CMakeLists.txt`:

  .. code-block::

     FILE(GLOB app_sources src/*.c)

>      target_sources(app PRIVATE ${app_sources})

Reviewer 3: The user already knows how to add source files.

Knowing this trick is unnecessary, and arguably, not even a best-practice[0].

Advanced users that wish to add source files without modifying CMakeLists.txt are going to read CMake docs and find out how to do this anyway.

Let's cut the point about wildcard.

[0] Note We do not recommend using GLOB to collect a list of source files from your source tree. If no CMakeLists.txt file changes when a source is added or removed then the generated build system cannot know when to ask CMake to regenerate. https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/file.html

Author: Didn't see you comment when I discussed this with Pawel, who agreed with removing this. So this is removed.

Reviewer 4: @SebastianBoe happy to see we are aligned on this :smile: 
https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/6121#discussion_r758360138

> * If your application provides header files, the build system will look for header files in include directories.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The build system searches for header files in include directories.
```

The build system will look for header files regardless of whether the application provides header files or not. But we need to introduce the concept of "include directories" for those developers not familiar with them.

Adding files and changing compiler settings
*******************************************

The |NCS| build system is based on Zephyr, whose build system is based on `CMake`_.
For more information, see :ref:`zephyr:application` in the Zephyr documentation.

In the |NCS|, the application is a CMake project.
As such, the application controls the configuration and build process of both itself, Zephyr, and sourced libraries.
The application's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is the main CMake project file and the source of the build process configuration.

> Zephyr creates a CMake component that must be imported by the application into its :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.

Reviewer 4: > Zephyr creates a CMake component

Considering this is about the build system then this sounds to me like something being created during the build process which is not the case.

How about:
```suggestion
Zephyr provides a CMake package that must be loaded by the application into its :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.
```

*Note*: CMake provides two types, `packages` and `modules` so as a reader knowing CMake, I would be in doubt which of those you mean when referring to `component`:
https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-packages.7.html
https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-modules.7.html
https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html#command:find_package

Ref:
> **find_package**
> Find a package (usually provided by something external to the project), and load its package-specific details.

Reviewer 5: I meant package.

> When imported, the application is able to reference items provided by both Zephyr and the |NCS|.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When loaded, the application is able to reference items provided by both Zephyr and the |NCS|.
```

> Importing the Zephyr `CMake`_ component creates the ``app`` library.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Loading the Zephyr `CMake`_ package creates the ``app`` library.
```

> All files that your application uses must be added to this library.

Reviewer 4: What do you mean by this ?

Can I not create additional libraries and link those to the `app` lib ?

Reviewer 5: I meant only the source files that are added to the application by the user. These are added to the app library.
Naturally user could create a new library (make it get everything needed from Zephyr) and link it with app library.

We could add a passage about that but if we want to cover adding new application libraries I would add a separate (advanced) section. (taking into account that user much know something about cmake to not create more problems this way)

Reviewer 4: Then I would rephrase it, especially remove the word **must**.
How about:
```suggestion
 All files that your application uses can be added to this library. 
```

This is done directly in the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file or files that are sourced by it.

The application has full control over the build process it can impact compiler options, application defines, or include directories.
It can also define how and which libraries are linked with the ``app`` library using either standard CMake commands or commands provided by Zephyr's CMake component.

.. note::

>    Zephyr provides a :kconfig:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` option to add compiler flags visible during entire build process.

Reviewer 4: Is this really something we should mention here ?

Readers might belive this is the right way to go, but Zephyr supports most options through Kconfig, like:
Optimization: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/reference/kconfig/choice_555.html#choice-555
Standards: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/reference/kconfig/CONFIG_STD_CPP98.html
Misra sane flags: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/reference/kconfig/CONFIG_MISRA_SANE.html
Coverage: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/reference/kconfig/CONFIG_COVERAGE.html
Color diagnostic: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/reference/kconfig/CONFIG_COMPILER_COLOR_DIAGNOSTICS.html
Different warning bases / levels using `-DW=[1|2|3]`.
and more.

So I would prefer to direct the reader to the known supported flags, and only if the reader needs specific flags not already covered natively by the build system, we should have a description on how to do that.

Reviewer 5: I added it for the reason you mentioned - Zephyr has it's own ways of influencing the build so not everything should go through the CMake files (even if it's possible). Maybe this section should be more descriptive or point somewhere to Zephyr documentation...

Reviewer 4: at least I think we should point to somewhere which describes how to use Kconfig to control the compile options.

Referring directly to `CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` bears the risk of leading the reader to sub-optimal flow.

I don't have a good proposal atm, but will do some thinking.

To update the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file, either edit it directly or use |SES| (SES) to maintain it.

Editing CMakeLists.txt directly
===============================

You must add all the files that your application uses to the ``app`` library created by Zephyr.
This is done by the :c:func:`target_sources` function provided by CMake.

> You can use it directly in :file:`CMakeLists.txt`.

Reviewer 3: Can we find a different word than uses. An application uses the kernel.

"All application source files are usually added to the ``app`` library crated by Zephyr."

Pay attention to the following configuration options:

* If your application is complex, you may wish to split it into subdirectories.

>   In such case, these subdirectories can provide own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.

Reviewer 3: provide their own

Reviewer 3: Also omit "In such case"

This is done by the :c:func:`target_sources` function provided by CMake.
You can use it directly in :file:`CMakeLists.txt`.

   FILE(GLOB app_sources src/*.c)
   target_sources(app PRIVATE ${app_sources})
Pay attention to the following configuration options:

Instead of specifying each file (explicitly or with a wildcard), you can include all files from a folder by adding that folder as include folder::
* If your application is complex, you may wish to split it into subdirectories.
  In such case, these subdirectories can provide own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.
* To include several files, you can specify them with a wildcard.
  For example, to include all :file:`.c` files from the :file:`src` folder, add the following lines to your :file:`CMakeLists.txt`:

>    target_include_directories(app PRIVATE src)

Reviewer 3: Looks the old docs were outright wrong.

Oops.

Reviewer 5: not the first place.
I expect there are mode. I actually would like to go see all of it at some point :/

>      target_sources(app PRIVATE ${app_sources})

Reviewer 4: should we really tell users to do something discourage by CMake ?
https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/file.html#filesystem

> Note
>
> We do not recommend using GLOB to collect a list of source files from your source tree. If no CMakeLists.txt file changes when a source is added or removed then the generated build system cannot know when to ask CMake to regenerate. The CONFIGURE_DEPENDS flag may not work reliably on all generators, or if a new generator is added in the future that cannot support it, projects using it will be stuck. Even if CONFIGURE_DEPENDS works reliably, there is still a cost to perform the check on every rebuild.

Reviewer 5: That goes deeper. It seems all our samples are built this way and this is why GLOB landed inside the documentation.

Reviewer 4: I know all our samples does this, and to be honest I don't think it's good practice.

But going from small samples using this principle, and then into proposing this directly in our docs is one step further.
Especially as users are expected to have more complex samples.

Reviewer 5: I agree with you. I expect at some point we should get rid of GLOB from our cmakes.

Author: Sounds like @tejlmand wants this removed from this page, while you @pdunaj prefer to keep it here for now?

>      target_include_directories(app PRIVATE src)

Author: Rephrased to ``inc``.

The :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files for the sample applications in the :file:`sdk-nrf` repository already have the required tags.
Therefore, if you always use SES to maintain them, you do not need to worry about tagging.
Typically, the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files include at least the :file:`main.c` file as source:

.. code-block:: c

   # NORDIC SDK APP START
   target_sources(app PRIVATE src/main.c)
   # NORDIC SDK APP END

Advanced compiler settings
==========================

The application has full control over the build process.

Using Zephyr's configuration options is the standard way of controlling how the system is built.
These options can be found under Zephyr's menuconfig :guilabel:`Build and Link Features` > :guilabel:`Compiler Options`.
For example, to optimize for size, select :kconfig:`CONFIG_SIZE_OPTIMIZATIONS`; to compile for speed, select :kconfig:`CONFIG_SPEED_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

> If you want to specify non-standard compiler options, pass them using :kconfig:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT`.

Reviewer 4: what is `non-standard compiler options` ?

If you really think an `Advanced compiler settings` belongs in a getting started guide, then I would like this re-phrased.

For example:
```suggestion
Compiler options not controlled by the Zephyr build system can be manually controlled through  :kconfig:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT`.
```

> In addition to Zephyr's configuration, you can decide which options are passed to CMake targets using CMake commands.

Reviewer 4: What do you mean ?

Can I pass extra options to the `menuconfig` target using CMake commands and what commands do I need.
When providing such info, we need to be precise and link to other documentation or provide an example of what / how to do this.

Reviewer 3: Answering on behalf of Pawel as he is unavailable.

Let's drop this sentence:

In addition to Zephyr's configuration, you can decide which options are passed to CMake targets using CMake commands.

.. _configure_application:

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

.. _configuration_system_overview:

Configuration system overview
=============================

Zephyr's :ref:`configuration system <zephyr:build_overview>` is distributed, and so is the |NCS| one.
This means that there are multiple sources of configuration.

> In the |NCS|, the configuration system consists of the following elements:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|NCS| consists of the following systems:
```

The user should know by now that we are talking about config systems.

* Just like in Zephyr, hardware-related options are handled through Devicetree specification (DTS) files.
* Just like in Zephyr, software-related options are handled through Kconfig files.

> * Additionally for the |NCS|, memory layout configuration is handled through Partition Manager.

Reviewer 3: We are wording that configuration systems should follow, so it will read strangely if we open with "Just like in Zephyr", no?

* Devicetree specification (DTS) files for hardware-related options.
* Kconfig files for software-related options.
* Partition Manager files for memory layout configuration, an |NCS| configuration system that is not available in Zephyr.

.. _configure_application_hw:

Hardware-related configuration
------------------------------

.. ncs-include:: guides/build/index.rst
   :docset: zephyr
   :dedent: 3
   :start-after: Devicetree
   :end-before: The preprocessed devicetree sources

The preprocessed devicetree sources (stored in :file:`*.dts.pre.tmp`) are parsed by :file:`zephyr/scripts/dts/gen_defines.py` to generate a :file:`devicetree_unfixed.h` header with preprocessor macros.

.. ncs-include:: guides/build/index.rst
   :docset: zephyr
   :dedent: 3
   :start-after: header with preprocessor macros.
   :end-before: This file is just for reference.

> The :file:`zephyr.dts` file describes the entire hardware-related configuration of the system, while the header file provides defines that can be used to refer hardware configuration from the source code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The :file:`zephyr.dts` file contains the entire hardware-related configuration of the system in device tree format, and the header file contains the same information, but with defines usable by source code.
```

This reads like:
The x decribes y, while the z provides æ.

But they both describe y. Just in different formats.

For more detailed information, see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:dt-guide`.

.. _configure_application_sw:

Software-related configuration
------------------------------

.. ncs-include:: guides/build/index.rst
   :docset: zephyr
   :dedent: 3
   :start-after: Kconfig
   :end-before: Information from devicetree is available to Kconfig,

Information from devicetree is available to Kconfig, through the functions defined in :file:`zephyr/scripts/kconfig/kconfigfunctions.py`.

> The single :file:`.config` file describes the entire software configuration of the constructed binary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The single :file:`<build_dir>/zephyr/.config` file describes the entire software configuration of the constructed binary.
```

Reviewer 3: I'm assuming it isn't obvious where the .config file is, maybe it is obvious from the docs included above.

For detailed information about configuration options, see :ref:`zephyr:application-kconfig` in the Zephyr documentation.

Memory layout configuration
---------------------------

> If enabled, the :ref:`partition_manager` specific to the |NCS| provides the memory layout definition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If enabled, the :ref:`partition_manager`, which is specific to the |NCS|, provides the memory layout definition.
```

the x specific to y

sounds like there are multiple x, and we are just talking about the one specific to NCS.

But there is only one x.

My suggestion is not perfect either, too many commas.

The layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or the presence of child images.

> The build system works to ensure that all required partitions are enabled and that the right size of each partition area is selected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:ref:`partition_manager` and CMake build scripts ensure that all required partitions are in the correct place, and have the correct size.
```

We don't want to communicate a work-split between PM and CMake that doesn't exist.

Also omit "enabled", if they have the right size and location they are obviously enabled.

> If you want to provide a custom partition definition, specify the static configuration in the :file:`pm_static.yml` file.

Reviewer 3: Let's cut this. Both too detailed an not detailed enough.

Where is the file located?
What goes into the file?

Better to cut it and refer to the PM chapter at the end of this section.

We could maybe communicate that both static configurations and dynamically generated configurations are supported, but not sure how to word this, perhaps the PM chapter has a good wording we could copy.

Author: PM has a whole section about this, so I linked there.

> After the CMake run, the build system creates a single :file:`partitions.yml` file in the :file:`build` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After CMake has run a single :file:`partitions.yml` file with the complete memory layout will have been created in the :file:`build` directory.
```

And cut the next line.

The language was off with "After the CMake run". And also, since we were talking about specifically CMake running it was important that we be more precise, and not imply that the build system generated by CMake is the thing creating the .yml file.

This file describes the resulting memory layout.
This process also creates a set of header files that provides defines, which can be used to refer to memory layout elements.

> 

Reviewer 3: Need another line at the end.

"For more information about partition manager see chapter X"

Author: What chapter do you mean here?

Reviewer 3: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/scripts/partition_manager/partition_manager.html

Child images
------------

The |NCS| build system allows the application project to become a root for the sub-applications known in the |NCS| as :ref:`child images <ug_multi_image>`.
The child images are system components that reside on the same hardware system.

> They either cooperate with the application or the application depends on them.

Reviewer 3: Cut this line.

Has no explanatory value.

Reviewer 3: Could also cut line 193.

It will be clear from the examples given later that the images will be on the same hardware system.

And component kind of communicates something smaller than an image.

> Examples of child images are bootloaders, network cores, or security-related binaries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Examples of child images are bootloader images, network core images, or security-related images.
```

Either all three should mention images, or none. And the security-related image shouldn't suddenly use the term binary.

Reviewer 3: Also, it sounds weird to say a network core is an image.

Each child image is a separate application.
For information about how to configure child images, see :ref:`ug_multi_image_defining`.

Changing the configuration temporarily
======================================

When building your application, the different :file:`Kconfig` and :file:`*_defconfig` files and the :file:`prj.conf` file are merged together.

> The combined configuration is saved in a :file:`zephyr/.config` file in your :file:`build` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The resulting configuration is written to the file :file:`zephyr/.config` in the :file:`build` directory.
```

Shouldn't use the word "save" about files in the build directory.

Files in the build directory are inherently temporary and not saved.

Reviewer 3: These two sentences make it sound like .config is a merge of the aforementioned files. Which is incorrect.

Perhaps we could write:

[...] are merged together and then processed by Kconfig. The resulting configuration [...]

Reviewer 3: Interestingly enough.

The .config file is not deleted when

ninja clean

is invoked.

So the sentence below should say

"but it is deleted when you **pristinely** clean the build directory"

Reviewer 4: > The .config file is not deleted when
> ninja clean
> is invoked.

Correct, which was why I wrote to @pdunaj here https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/6121#discussion_r759119361
> wrong, the .config is kept when you re-run CMake, but will be lost if you remove the build folder / do a pristine build.

So better write that instead of clean, cause a regular clean is not sufficient.

Author: Edited pristinely :D

The :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files for the sample applications in the :file:`sdk-nrf` repository already have the required tags.
Therefore, if you always use SES to maintain them, you do not need to worry about tagging.
Typically, the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files include at least the :file:`main.c` file as source:

.. code-block:: c

   # NORDIC SDK APP START
   target_sources(app PRIVATE src/main.c)
   # NORDIC SDK APP END

Advanced compiler settings
==========================

The application has full control over the build process.

Using Zephyr's configuration options is the standard way of controlling how the system is built.
These options can be found under Zephyr's menuconfig :guilabel:`Build and Link Features` > :guilabel:`Compiler Options`.

> For example, to turn off optiomizations, select :kconfig:`CONFIG_NO_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to turn off optimizations, select :kconfig:`CONFIG_NO_OPTIMIZATIONS`.
```

> Compiler options not controlled by the Zephyr build system can be manually controlled through the :kconfig:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 4: I know I proposed the sentence myself, but I think `manually` can be omitted (didn't notice that at first).
All Kconfig options is kind of manual.

```suggestion
 Compiler options not controlled by the Zephyr build system can be controlled through the :kconfig:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` Kconfig option.
```

Author: Edited.

For more detailed information, see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:dt-guide`.

.. _configure_application_sw:

Software-related configuration
------------------------------

.. ncs-include:: guides/build/index.rst
   :docset: zephyr
   :dedent: 3
   :start-after: Kconfig
   :end-before: Information from devicetree is available to Kconfig,

Information from devicetree is available to Kconfig, through the functions defined in :file:`zephyr/scripts/kconfig/kconfigfunctions.py`.

The single :file:`.config` file in the :file:`<build_dir>/zephyr/` directory describes the entire software configuration of the constructed binary.

For detailed information about configuration options, see :ref:`zephyr:application-kconfig` in the Zephyr documentation.

Memory layout configuration
---------------------------

The :ref:`partition_manager` is specific to the |NCS|.
If enabled, it provides the memory layout configuration.
The layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or the presence of child images.
Partition Manager ensures that all required partitions are in the correct place and have the correct size.

> Dynamically generated configurations are supported by default, but you can also specify :ref:`ug_pm_static`.

Author: Implemented with a slight rewording.

After CMake has run, a single :file:`partitions.yml` file with the complete memory layout will have been created in the :file:`build` directory.
This process also creates a set of header files that provides defines, which can be used to refer to memory layout elements.

Child images
------------

The |NCS| build system allows the application project to become a root for the sub-applications known in the |NCS| as :ref:`child images <ug_multi_image>`.
Examples of child images are bootloader images, network core images, or security-related images.
Each child image is a separate application.

Changing the configuration temporarily
======================================

> When building your application, the different :file:`Kconfig` and :file:`*_defconfig` files and the :file:`prj.conf` file are merged together and then processed by Kconfig.

Author: Added .config next to _defconfig. Waiting for input from @SebastianBoe . Maybe we don't need to mention Kconfig at all?

> When building your application, the different :file:`Kconfig` and :file:`*_defconfig` files and the :file:`prj.conf` file are merged together and then processed by Kconfig.

Reviewer 3: Was unable to find a better way to say this. So this is good enough IMHO.

The resulting configuration is written to the :file:`zephyr/.config` file in your :file:`build` directory.

> This means that this file is available when building the application, but it is deleted when you clean the build directory with the ``pristine`` target (see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application_rebuild` for more information).

Reviewer 4: I find it unfortunate that the `pristine` target is highlighted exactly the same way as filenames are highlighted.

That is confusing when reading a section where both are used so often.
`pristine` is not a file, so could we have some another highlighting type for targets ?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9802583/145198266-e32eb592-d608-4c68-bbae-8cd59fb0e5de.png)

Author: Will follow this up with the doc framework team.

Therefore, if you always use SES to maintain them, you do not need to worry about tagging.
Typically, the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files include at least the :file:`main.c` file as source:

.. code-block:: c

   # NORDIC SDK APP START
   target_sources(app PRIVATE src/main.c)
   # NORDIC SDK APP END

Advanced compiler settings
==========================

The application has full control over the build process.

Using Zephyr's configuration options is the standard way of controlling how the system is built.
These options can be found under Zephyr's menuconfig :guilabel:`Build and Link Features` > :guilabel:`Compiler Options`.
For example, to turn off optimizations, select :kconfig:`CONFIG_NO_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Compiler options not controlled by the Zephyr build system can be controlled through the :kconfig:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` Kconfig option.

.. _configure_application:

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

.. _configuration_system_overview:

Configuration system overview

> =============================

Reviewer 3: The two sentences in "Configuring your application" are not saying anything useful. And it is a bit ominous to mention a danger without an immediate follow up about how to mitigate the danger.

Can we promote "Configuration system overview" up one title level and delete "Configuring your application" ?

The single :file:`.config` file in the :file:`<build_dir>/zephyr/` directory describes the entire software configuration of the constructed binary.

For more information, see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application-kconfig`.

Memory layout configuration
---------------------------

The Partition Manager is specific to the |NCS|.
If enabled, it provides the memory layout configuration.
The layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or the presence of child images.
Partition Manager ensures that all required partitions are in the correct place and have the correct size.

If enabled, the memory layout can be controlled in the following ways:

* Dynamically (default) - In this scenario, the layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or the presence of child images.
  Partition Manager ensures that all required partitions are in the correct place and have the correct size.
* Statically - In this scenario, you need to provide the static configuration.
  See :ref:`ug_pm_static` for information about how to do this.

> Dynamically generated configurations are supported by default, but you can also specify :ref:`ug_pm_static`.

Reviewer 4: I believe this line can be remove now, because you have just listed both options in the bullet list above, and have noted in the bullet list that Dynamically is default.

```suggestion
```

The :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files for the sample applications in the :file:`sdk-nrf` repository already have the required tags.
Therefore, if you always use SES to maintain them, you do not need to worry about tagging.
Typically, the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files include at least the :file:`main.c` file as source:

.. code-block:: c

   # NORDIC SDK APP START
   target_sources(app PRIVATE src/main.c)
   # NORDIC SDK APP END

Advanced compiler settings
==========================

The application has full control over the build process.

The standard way of controlling how the system is built is done through Zephyr's configuration options.
These options can be found under Zephyr's menuconfig :guilabel:`Build and Link Features` > :guilabel:`Compiler Options`.

> For example, to optimize for size, you can select :kconfig:`CONFIG_SIZE_OPTIMIZATIONS`, while if you want to compile for speed, you can select :kconfig:`CONFIG_SPEED_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Author: Used semicolon instead of period.

> For example, to optimize for size, you can select :kconfig:`CONFIG_SIZE_OPTIMIZATIONS`, while if you want to compile for speed, you can select :kconfig:`CONFIG_SPEED_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Reviewer 3: Turning off optimizations is the most common thing for users to ask about.

Optimizing for speed rarely makes sense in embedded.

So let's use NO_OPTIMIZATIONS as an example instead. It turns off optimizations.

If you want to specify non-standard compiler options, you can pass them using :kconfig:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT`.

> Additionally to Zephyr's configuration, you can decide which options are passed to CMake targets using CMake commands.

Reviewer 3: "Additionally to Zephyr's configuration, you can decide which options are passed to CMake targets using CMake commands."

Sorry. I don't know what this means.

.. _configure_application:

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

.. _configuration_system_overview:

Configuration system overview
=============================

> Zephyr's :ref:`configuration system <zephyr:build_overview>` is distributed, and so is the |NCS| one.

Author: Doesn't your edit imply they are distributed, but there is no relation between them? With the "and so is" I wanted to hint at the dependency of the NCS on Zephyr.

> Zephyr's :ref:`configuration system <zephyr:build_overview>` is distributed, and so is the |NCS| one.

Reviewer 3: distributed implies, to a technical reader, that they are more loosely coupled than they really are.

In reality we have one configuration system running after another in sequence and even generation of config for one system based on the preceding one.

"Zephyr and NCS use several configuration systems, each system with a specialized syntax and purpose."

This sentence covers both line 129 and 130 IMHO.

> Zephyr's :ref:`configuration system <zephyr:build_overview>` is distributed, and so is the |NCS| one.

Author: Rephrased, but kept the link to Zephyr's build overview page.

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

The configuration system in |NCS| consists of several elements:

* ``Kconfig`` configuration files focusing on software related options,
* ``dts`` configuration files focusing on hardware related options,
* ``Partition manager`` configuration files focusing on memory layout.

The Zephyr and so the |NCS| configuration system is distributed.
It means there are multiple sources of the configuration.

The software related configuration comes from ``Kconfig`` files.
There are several layers providing the configuration options:

> * The lowest layer results of defaults provided in ``Kconfig`` files of all system components, libraries and application itself.

Reviewer: Did you mean "consists of" or "results in"? Or is it a correct form that I'm not familiar with? :)

Reviewer 5: "consists of"

* The defaults are overlayed by the options specified by the selected board in its :file:`*_defconfig` file and its :file:`Kconfig.defconfig` file (see :ref:`zephyr:default_board_configuration` in the Zephyr documentation for more information).

> * The configuration is additionally overlayed by the :file:`prj.conf` file provided by the application.

Reviewer: Should we also mention optional configuration overlays, specified with `-DOVERLAY_CONFIG` CMake variable?

Reviewer 5: I was thinking about it but I would add it as a separate point to not make the matter even fuzzier. That would go as something other then build types. We need to explain them for sure as some applications use it (like asset tracker, @jhn-nordic ).

Reviewer: Ok, fine with me!

After merging the configuration sets imported from mentioned configuration files, the build system creates a single :file:`zephyr.dts` file describing entire hardware related configuration of the system.
This process also creates a set of header files files proving defines that can be used to refer hardware configuration from the source code.
The hardware related configuration does not change until the project is re-evaluated.

.. note::
   The files resulting from ``dts`` evaluation should not be notified.
   To store the configuration parmanantly you need to identify file contributing to the specific part of ``dts`` tree and edit it directly.
   In most cases this will be your application :file:`app.overlay` file.

If enabled the ``partition manager`` provides the memory layout definition.
The layout is impacted by various elements such as ``Kconfig`` configuration options or presence of child images.
The build system works to ensure all required partitions are enabled and select right size of each partition area.
In case you wish to provide an own partition definition, this is done by specifying static configuration in :file:`pm_static.yml` file.

> After project evaluation the build system creates a single :file:`partitions.yml` file describing resulting memory layout.

Reviewer: And `pm.config` which contains constants describing the partition layout, which can be used in the code and build scripts.

Reviewer 5: Yes - defining the rules. I think we spent some time here. I would like @greg-fer to have a look first and see how to split this up. As I mentioned we have some page about building. It simply short and missing multiple things related to what NCS adds. We also need to see if some things that are already said in Zephyr should be stated here (I think to some extend these should be repeated so user has a complete picture of NCS build system).

This process also creates a set of header files files proving defines that can be used to refer to memory layout elements.
The memory layout does not change until the project is re-evaluated.

> The |NCS| build system allow the application project to become a root for sub-applications refered in |NCS| as child images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |NCS| build system allows the application project to become a root for sub-applications referred in |NCS| as child images.
```

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

Zephyr's configuration system is distributed, and so is the |NCS| one.
This means that there are multiple sources of configuration.
In the |NCS|, the configuration system consists of the following elements:

* Kconfig configuration files that focus on software-related options.

> * Devicetree specification (DTS) configuration files that focus on hardware-related options.

Reviewer 4: I wouldn't call devicetree files `configuration files`.
The main purpose of devicetree files is to describe the hardware.

But I believe @mbolivar-nordic would be better than me on how to phrase this in a precise and correct manner.

Reviewer 5: But DTS files are configuration files. You actually specify a lot of things using DTS files that are reflected in either what FW does (e.g. what component is choses to use), which partition it uses or even what speeds/channels/pins HW should use for the sake of the application. It's something that integrator will change freely depending on needs.

Reviewer 3: The parts of device tree that users work with the most is most definitely configuration.

I wish device tree only did HW description.

Reviewer 6: > but I would appreciate input from @mbolivar-nordic on this.

DT is definitely configuration too. This is in the first paragraph of the "introduction to devicetree" page in the zephyr docs:

"Zephyr uses devicetree to describe the hardware available on its Supported Boards, **as well as that hardware’s initial configuration**."

https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/dts/intro.html

Reviewer 6: (Somewhat related, I actually plan on moving the devicetree documentation pages in the zephyr docs under the new "build and configuration systems" heading)

Author: No changes made (well, I added the link, but it was not the point of this specific conversation).

* Partition manager configuration files that focus on memory layout.

> 

Reviewer 3: We should provide links to where the user can learn more about each configuration system.

Reviewer 3: Kconfig: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/build/index.html#configuration-system-kconfig
DT: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/dts/index.html#dt-guide
PM: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/scripts/partition_manager/partition_manager.html

Author: Added links to Kconfig and DT.

Software-related configuration
==============================

The software-related configuration comes from Kconfig files (called simply :file:`Kconfig`).
There are several layers that provide the configuration options:

* The lowest layer consists of defaults provided in Kconfig files of all system components, libraries, and application itself.
* The defaults are overlayed by the options specified by the selected board in its :file:`*_defconfig` file and its :file:`Kconfig.defconfig` file (see :ref:`zephyr:default_board_configuration` in the Zephyr documentation for more information).
* The configuration is additionally overlayed by the :file:`prj.conf` file provided by the application.

> 

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure this helps the reader much.

Maybe we should describe the two parts individually.

- The `Kconfig` and `Kconfig.*` files in the build system forms a Kconfig tree describing the system.
  It also controls the default value for settings not configured by the application or the user.

- The board specific `*_defconfig` and applications `prj.conf` contains configuration settings specific to application being build.

@SebastianBoe what do you think, wouldn't it be better to split this into those two parts ?

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/6121#pullrequestreview-818914020

After merging the configuration sets imported from these configuration files, the build system creates a single :file:`.config` file that describes the entire software configuration of the system.
This is done once and configuration comes solely from the :file:`.config` file until the project is reevaluated.

.. note::
   You can edit the :file:`.config` file and rebuild the application to check how the configuration changes.

>    The changes will be lost when the application project is reevaluated.

Reviewer 4: What does `reevaluated` means ?

I'm not familiar with that term when building Zephyr / NCS.

Reviewer 5: I meant when you rerun cmake, which will cause build files to be reconstructed. Don't know how else to name it.

Author: Can you use exactly that? "Rerun CMake" or "rebuild the files"? "reevaluated" is not used in our docs and that's one of the points I wanted to discuss with you on Teams.

Reviewer 4: > I meant when you rerun cmake, which will cause build files to be reconstructed.

wrong, the `.config` is kept when you re-run CMake, but will be lost if you remove the build folder / do a pristine build.
https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/application/index.html#rebuilding-an-application

> Alternatively, enter one of the following commands to delete all generated files, including the .config files that contain the application’s current configuration information for those board types.
> 
> `west build -t pristine`
> or
> `ninja pristine`

Reviewer 3: "wrong, the .config is kept when you re-run CMake, but will be lost if you remove the build folder / do a pristine build."
... or modify one of the Kconfig fragments used, e.g. prj.conf.

Author: Rephrased, pending final verification.

Reviewer 4: >  ... or modify one of the Kconfig fragments used, e.g. prj.conf.

Right, thanks for adding that.

==============================

The hardware-related configuration comes from :file:`dts` files.
There are several layers that provide the hardware definitions:

* The lowest layer consists of defaults provided in :file:`dtsi` files for the given SoC.
* The :file:`dtsi` files are included by selected board in its :file:`dts` file, which provides defaults of hardware configuration for the entire board.
* The hardware-related configuration is further overlayed by the :file:`app.overlay` file, which is provided by the application.

After merging the configuration sets imported from these configuration files, the build system creates a single :file:`zephyr.dts` file that describes the entire hardware-related configuration of the system.
This process also creates a set of header files that provide defines, which can be used to refer hardware configuration from the source code.
The hardware-related configuration does not change until the project is reevaluated.

.. note::
   The files resulting from DTS evaluation should not be notified.
   To store the configuration parmanantly, you need to identify the file that contributes to the specific part of DTS tree and edit it directly.

>    In most cases, this is the :file:`app.overlay` file of your application.

Reviewer 4: @mbolivar-nordic would you please take a close look at this part.

I would describe devicetree as `Hardware-related configuration`, even though a small portion of devicetree (like the `chosen` node part and io-pin overlay) can be seen as configuration.

But you are the master on how to describe this.

Reviewer 5: DTS gives more configuration options that affect application. That can be order in which nodes are defined. Channel selection, speeds, etc.
We should also look from the point of view of the integrator that modifies the application as a whole (meaning they want to extend the behavior to new HW). DTS configures HW. Since application can change it using overlay I believe this must be mentioned.

Reviewer 4: I know what devicetree is.
And I don't think this section is precise enough, and thus might mislead the reader into thinking devicetree is something else.

Btw. why are we trying to repeat devicetree documentation when we already have this good description in nRF Connect SDK docs:
http://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/zephyr/guides/dts/intro.html

Also note from that page:
> There are two types of devicetree input files: *devicetree sources* and *devicetree bindings*.

Reviewer 5: I don't try to repeat it. If this page is a central hub about how to configure application we need some introduction about various points where application configuration takes place.

Author: Added the link to the DTS intro in Zephyr in the first sentence, as suggested by @SebastianBoe . The rest was not touched, because of what @pdunaj wrote.

===============================

If enabled, the :ref:`partition_manager` provides the memory layout definition.
The layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or presence of child images.
The build system works to ensure that all required partitions are enabled and that the right size of each partition area is selected.
If you want to provide a custom partition definition, you can do this by specifying the static configuration in the :file:`pm_static.yml` file.

After the project evaluation, the build system creates a single :file:`partitions.yml` file that describes the resulting memory layout.
This process also creates a set of header files that provides defines, which can be used to refer to memory layout elements.
The memory layout does not change until the project is reevaluated.

Child images
============

The |NCS| build system allows the application project to become a root for sub-applications referred in the |NCS| as :ref:`child images <ug_multi_image>`.
The child images are system components that reside on the same hardware system.
They either cooperate with the application or the application depends on them.

> An example of child images are bootloaders, network cores, or security-related binaries.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Examples of child images are bootloaders, network cores, or security-related binaries.
```

Author: Fixed

Each child image is a separate application.

> However, when constructed as part of your application, each child image configuration can be controlled by it.

Reviewer 4: What does this mean ?

Does the parent image control the complete build of the child image, or can the user configure all or part of the child image build ?

Reviewer 5: That would depend on how you look. I would say it controls child image build as a whole.

Reviewer 4: I would remove this sentence and instead direct the user to the multi image page.

Something like:
```suggestion
Configuration of child images are described in the [Defining and enabling a child image](http://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/ug_multi_image.html#defining-and-enabling-a-child-image) section.
```

Reviewer 5: We can do that but I would like to have documentation informing the user how build type propagates. Did not want the child images jump out of the box on this page so tried to introduce them. Can do that with a link and we will see how it looks.

Author: Added the new sentence. Removed the "However" one.

Reviewer 4: > Did not want the child images jump out of the box on this page so tried to introduce them. 

and you do, which I think is fine and i'm not asking you to remove the subsection, but I don't think we should go into details here, instead we should direct the reader to the relevant page.

To create custom build type files for your application instead of using a single :file:`prj.conf` file, complete the following steps:

1. Create a new :file:`prj_buildtype.conf` in the main application folder next to the :file:`prj.conf` file, with ``buildtype`` corresponding to your build type name.
#. Edit the new file to set the desired Kconfig configuration options.
#. Save the changes.

> In case there are other configuration files that you would like to modify, such as Partition Manager static configuration, Devicetree configuration ,or any child image configuration, you need to specify a separate :file:`.conf` file for them using the same naming pattern.

Author: @pdunaj , this edit comes from you. Any thoughts?

> In case there are other configuration files that you would like to modify, such as Partition Manager static configuration, Devicetree configuration ,or any child image configuration, you need to specify a separate :file:`.conf` file for them using the same naming pattern.

Author: > Should we mention about defining files that describe board-specific build types

@MarekPieta , if this only applies to a handful of applications and not all of them that use build types (thinking about Matter weather station), I'd not mention this here.

To locate a specific configuration option, use the filter (:guilabel:`Jump to` in menuconfig and guiconfig).
The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` also lists the menu path where the option can be found.

Changing the configuration permanently
======================================

> To configure your application and maintain the configuration when you clean the build directory, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.

Reviewer 4: I think we just discussed earlier that the changes to `.config` would only be lost if the build directory was cleaned `pristinely`.

Author: Added `pristinely`.

In most cases, this will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.
In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.

.. tip::
   Modifying the temporary configuration can result in an invalid or bloated configuration, because the default values have already been calculated based on the previous configuration.
   It is a good practice to modify :file:`prj.conf` instead of modifying the configuration in menuconfig.

If you work with SES, the :file:`prj.conf` file is read when you open a project.
This means that after you edit this file, replace it with the newer version by using the :guilabel:`Project` > :guilabel:`Run CMake...` option.

.. _configuring_vsc:

Configuring in the VS Code extension

> ====================================

Reviewer 4: should we really have `VS Code extension` as a dedicated section ?

Wouldn't it be better to have a common section on how to adjust CMake build arguments, boards, etc. with different tabs, with a tab for:
- Command line
- SES
- VS Code extension

For example adjust this section:
http://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-6121/nrf/gs_modifying.html#providing-cmake-options

Author: I created a task for this some days ago: https://projecttools.nordicsemi.no/jira/browse/NCSDK-12765

To locate a specific configuration option, use the filter (:guilabel:`Jump to` in menuconfig and guiconfig).
The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` also lists the menu path where the option can be found.

Changing the configuration permanently
======================================

To configure your application and maintain the configuration when you clean the build directory, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.
In most cases, this will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.
In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.

.. tip::

>    Modifying the temporary configuration can result in an invalid or bloated configuration, because the default values have already been calculated based on the previous configuration.

Reviewer 4: This give the impression that we accept that using `menuconfig` results in an invalid configuration.

I believe that if user is using `menuconfig` to try out temporary changes, then that should not result in `invalid` configuration just because `menuconfig` was used.

If it does, then it's a (dependency) bug and we should fix it.

That said, disabling bluetooth stack on a sample which requires bluetooth will of course render the sample invalid, but that has nothing to do with using `menuconfig` cause the same will happen if you disable the bluetooth stack directory in `prj.conf`.

```suggestion
   Modifying the temporary configuration can result in a bloated configuration, because disabling a setting may not disable other settings that are no longer required, see https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/build/kconfig/tips.html#stuck-symbols-in-menuconfig-and-guiconfig
```
Link: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/build/kconfig/tips.html#stuck-symbols-in-menuconfig-and-guiconfig

Author: This is how this tip would look like:

>    Modifying the temporary configuration can result in a bloated configuration, because disabling a setting may not disable other settings that are no longer required.
>    See the "Stuck symbols in menuconfig and guiconfig" section on the :ref:`zephyr:kconfig_tips_and_tricks` page in the Zephyr documentation for more information.
>    It is a good practice to modify :file:`prj.conf` instead of modifying the configuration in menuconfig.

I'll wait for the decision of the discussion here: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/6121#discussion_r763832584

The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` also lists the menu path where the option can be found.

.. important::

>    All changes to the :file:`.config` file are lost when you clean your build directory or you rebuild the project with the ``pristine`` target.

Reviewer 3: This line should be cut.

It is redundant with

"This means that this file is available when building the application, but it is deleted when you clean the build directory."

If the user uses pristine, he should know that it is a very clean build directory. If he didn't know what pristine was he shouldn't have used it.

And it is already documented that cleaning the build directory deletes the .config file.

Reviewer 4: and it's not even correct: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/6121#discussion_r759119361
> wrong, the .config is kept when you re-run CMake, but will be lost if you remove the build folder / do a pristine build.

clean != remove

>    You can save the file to another location, but you must then manually copy it back to your build directory.

Reviewer 3: This doesn't make any sense.

The user is expected to know the difference between moving a file and copying a file.

This should be cut.

>    See Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application_rebuild` for more information.

Reviewer 3: Cut this line as well, as it doesn't make sense without the two lines above.

Author: Moved next to "This means that this file is available when building the application, but it is deleted when you clean the build directory." as discussed on Teams.

Changing the configuration permanently
======================================

To configure your application and maintain the configuration when you clean the build directory, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.

> In most cases, this will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or one of the configuration file overlays.

Reviewer 4: I think writing:
`or a extra Kconfig fragment` is better than `or one of the configuration file overlays.`

do you have an opinion here @SebastianBoe .

Author: Implemented `or a extra Kconfig fragment`

In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

> See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to edit the :file:`prj.conf` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.
```

setting_configuration_values explains much more than that. We shouldn't downplay these docs as they explain a lot.

.. tip::

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Reviewer 3: Answering on behalf of Pawel as he is unavailable.

Alternative suggestion:

Modifying the temporary configuration can result in an invalid or bloated configuration due to default values already having been calculated based on the previous configuration. It is therefore good practice to modify :file:`prj.conf` instead.

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Author: That's what Pawel meant, @SebastianBoe , when he was explaining that to me, thanks.

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Reviewer 4: > Modifying the temporary configuration can result in an invalid .... configuration

if the result of custom changes to the project using for example menuconfig results in an invalid configuration, then I believe we have a dependency issue in our Kconfig which should be fixed.

`menuconfig` and friends are still valid tools to try out temporary changes before deciding if they should be applied permanently.

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Reviewer 3: Aye, but we do have dependency issues. Which is what this tip is about, a safe way to change configurations without being affected by dependency issues.

I agree with Pawel that it is good practice to not use menuconfig to change options. There are exceptions to the rule, but it is a good tip.

If you wish we could rephrase it to say "to make changes in a way safe from dependency issues", or similar.

It's the same as building. I wouldn't do a release with an incremental build. To be safe, I would do a clean build, even though incremental builds are supposed to work.

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Reviewer 4: > but we do have dependency issues.

where ?
I have tried to followup everytime I've discovered those, like this cleanup but also parts related to bluetooth:
https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/pull/34594
https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-zephyr/pull/510
https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/4402

so I would personally think we should treat this as errors and fix them.

Also, we don't state in general, `code might have undiscovered bugs`.

If you know for a fact that there are dedicated places where we dependency issues, please list them, and we can fix those.

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Reviewer 3: I see them every time I read the code, my impression is that of the thousands of configs, there are hundreds that can not be modified through menuconfig without creating a build that is different from the one created if it were modified in prj.conf.

One of these hundreds is: https://projecttools.nordicsemi.no/jira/browse/NCSDK-11195?filter=-1&jql=reporter%20%3D%20anvi%20%20order%20by%20updated%20DESC

I don't have time to go looking for more.

I understand you have a different impression, that there are only a few dozen perhaps, of the thousands of configs.

In any case, as code owner, you may decide what kind of usage we should be encouraging. I thought it was 
a valid tip for a common problem, but if you see otherwise then removing this tip OK with me.

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Reviewer 4: > there are hundreds that can not be modified through menuconfig without creating a build that is different from the one created if it were modified in prj.conf.

Yes, the two builds may be different based on whether `menuconfig` was used or the `prj.conf` was edited directly.
But even a bloated configuration should be valid.
That is why this sentence is true and should be documented as you pointed out:
> Modifying the temporary configuration can result in a bloated configuration

> I understand you have a different impression, that there are only a few dozen perhaps, of the thousands of configs.

We probably have thousands of places that can result in a bloated configuration, but we should not have places resulting in an invalid configuration, cause if we have then such an invalid configuration could even be created by hand in a `prj.conf` directly.

> One of these hundreds is: https://projecttools.nordicsemi.no/jira/browse/NCSDK-11195?filter=-1&jql=reporter%20%3D%20anvi%20%20order%20by%20updated%20DESC

and this is exactly filed as a bug, and should be treated as such.
That one should probably even be marked as a known issue.

What about writing:
> Reconfiguring through `menuconfig` only change the specific setting and will not adjust defaults for other visible and configured symbols, see [Stuck symbols in menuconfig and guiconfig](http://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-6121/zephyr/guides/build/kconfig/tips.html#stuck-symbols-in-menuconfig-and-guiconfig). This may result in a bloated configuration compared to changing the setting directly in `prj.conf`.

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Reviewer 3: +1 to your re-write.

>    When modifying configuration, especially when disabling one of the previously enabled options, check if the options required by the option you are disabling are still needed.

Reviewer 3: s/only change/only changes/

When working with `Child images`_, you might need to permanently change their configuration.
In such case, your application can provide overlay files for child images.

> 

Reviewer 3: We can't say that something can be done without linking them to docs about how to do it.

We need to add a line that links to docs about how to do this.

Reviewer 3: The nordic docs are down. But I think it's documented here:

https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/ug_multi_image.html

Reviewer 4: I think we should remove those two lines:
- It's already described here: http://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-6121/nrf/gs_modifying.html#child-images that child images can be configured, and that has a proper link
- The text is imprecise, because providing overlay files is just one option.
   It's also possible to completely replace the default config file for a child image, see: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/ug_multi_image.html#image-specific-variables
   `     |-- prj.conf (G)                    If present, use instead of (A)`

This again shows why we should be very careful about writing identical pieces of information in multiple places, cause the chance of one of the places being imprecise, or directly wrong is close to 100%.

Author: We have a mention about coonfiguring child images in the "changing configuration temporarily", so removing it from the "changing config permanently" makes the documentation unbalanced. I moved the link to replace the second sentence ("In such case...")

Reviewer 4: > We have a mention about coonfiguring child images in the "changing configuration temporarily", 

No we don't.

We have a section about child images.
And after that child image section we have "changing configuration temporarily" which doesn't mention child images.

So why mention child images as part of "changing config permanently" when not mentioned under temporarily.

```
Child images
------------

The |NCS| build system allows the application project to become a root for the sub-applications known in the |NCS| as :ref:`child images <ug_multi_image>`.
The child images are system components that reside on the same hardware system.
They either cooperate with the application or the application depends on them.
Examples of child images are bootloaders, network cores, or security-related binaries.

Each child image is a separate application.
For information about how to configure child images, see :ref:`ug_multi_image_defining`.

Changing the configuration temporarily
======================================

When building your application, the different :file:`Kconfig` and :file:`*_defconfig` files and the :file:`prj.conf` file are merged together.
.....

```

Author: "Chaning the configuration temporarily" does mention child images:
```
To edit the file in SES, select :guilabel:`Project` > :guilabel:`Configure nRF Connect SDK Project`.
If your application contains more than one image (see :ref:`ug_multi_image`), you must select the correct target.
To configure the parent image (the main application), select :guilabel:`menuconfig`.
The other options allow you to configure the child images.
```

Reviewer 4: because in SES you get an interface like this:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9802583/145002935-a78f99eb-52ae-42ba-8fd2-d8c3da256797.png)

So this helps users to identify which image to configure, and as such has nothing to do with configuring of child images.
And as you see, it's only mentioned for SES, not in general (for `west` / `ninja`)

Author: Removed the two lines.

If you work with SES, the :file:`prj.conf` file is read when you open a project.

> This means that after you edit this file, you must re-open your project.

Author: No idea, this was added by Ruth and @SebastianBoe two years ago and not touched since...

> This means that after you edit this file, you must re-open your project.

Author: Rephrased to match new option.

.. note::
   It is possible to change the default configuration for a library by changing the :file:`Kconfig` file of the library.

>    However, best practice is to override the configuration in the application configuration file :file:`prj.conf`.

Reviewer 3: We should not be mentioning that this is possible.

These two lines should be cut.

It is also possible to change the configuration by finding all uses of the option in C sources and changing it to a hardcoded value. But it's not something that we want to support or imply is a good idea.

To locate a specific configuration option, use the filter (:guilabel:`Jump to` in menuconfig and guiconfig).
The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` also lists the menu path where the option can be found.

Changing the configuration permanently
======================================

To configure your application and maintain the configuration when you clean the build directory pristinely, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.
This will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.
In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.

.. tip::

>    Reconfiguring through menuconfig only changes the specific setting and will not adjust defaults for other visible and configured symbols.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Reconfiguring through menuconfig only changes the specific setting and the invisible options that are calculated from it. It does not adjust visible symbols that have already defaulted to a value even if this default calculation is supposed to be dependent on the changed setting.".
```

   This may result in a bloated configuration compared to changing the setting directly in :file:`prj.conf`.
   See the section Stuck symbols in menuconfig and guiconfig on the :ref:`kconfig_tips_and_tricks` in the Zephyr documentation for more information.

If you work with SES, the :file:`prj.conf` file is read when you open a project.

> The file will be reloaded when CMake re-runs. This will happen automatically when the application is rebuilt, but can also be requested manually by using the :guilabel:`Project` > :guilabel:`Run CMake...` option.

Reviewer 7: One sentence per line?

To locate a specific configuration option, use the filter (:guilabel:`Jump to` in menuconfig and guiconfig).
The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` also lists the menu path where the option can be found.

Changing the configuration permanently
======================================

To configure your application and maintain the configuration when you clean the build directory pristinely, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.

> In most cases, this will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.

Reviewer 4: `In most cases` ?
If user is not doing this in `prj.conf` or in an extra Kconfig fragment, then what options are left ?.

Suggest to remove `In most cases`.
```suggestion
This can be the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.
```

In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.

.. tip::
   Reconfiguring through menuconfig only changes the specific setting and will not adjust defaults for other visible and configured symbols.
   This may result in a bloated configuration compared to changing the setting directly in :file:`prj.conf`.
   See the section Stuck symbols in menuconfig and guiconfig on the :ref:`kconfig_tips_and_tricks` in the Zephyr documentation for more information.

If you work with SES, the :file:`prj.conf` file is read when you open a project.

> This means that after you edit this file, replace it with the newer version by using the :guilabel:`Project` > :guilabel:`Run CMake...` option.

Reviewer 4: This is a bit imprecise. The file will be read when CMake re-runs, which it will do automatically when a re-build is requested by the user and `prj.conf` has changed, but it can also be done manually if users want the settings updated earlier.

```suggestion
The file will be reloaded when CMake re-runs. This will happen automatically when the application is rebuilt, but can also be requested manually by using the :guilabel:`Project` > :guilabel:`Run CMake...` option.
```

   All changes to the :file:`.config` file are lost when you clean your build directory.
   You can save it to another location, but you must then manually copy it back to your build directory.

> The configuration does not change until the project is rebuilt using the ``pristine`` variable.

Reviewer: ``pristine`` is not a variable to my knowledge. It's a build target.

Author: Fixed.

See Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application_rebuild` for more information.

.. _configuring_vsc:

Configuring in the VS Code extension
====================================

The |VSC| extension lets you modify your build configuration for custom boards, add additional CMake build arguments, select Kconfig fragments, and more.

> For detailed instructions, see the `nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code`_ documentation site.

Author: I'd not touch this now. There is a specific task for VSC sections on this page, and I think we can edit this in there.

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_\ *selected_build_type*\.conf

> For example, you can replace the *selected_build_type* variable to build the ``release`` firmware for PCA20041 by running the following command in the project directory:

Author: Was this changed for nRF Desktop docs?

> For example, you can replace the *selected_build_type* variable to build the ``release`` firmware for PCA20041 by running the following command in the project directory:

Reviewer 5: This is an old leftover. I mentioned that some time ago.
This came here as a copy paste from desktop.

.. build_types_overview_start

The application is defined by a set of configuration files providing software and hardware relayed definitions.
This can be abbreviated as ``configuration set`` of the application.
The configuration set specifies which features application uses and how it behaves.
It is convenient to specify multiple configuration sets to quickly switch application behavior.
The most common example is to switch between ``release`` and ``debug`` variant of the application.

The configuration set that will be used during the application construction is selected by providing a ``build type``.
In the |NCS| you can define multiple build types.
This enable you to use different sets of configuration options for each board.

In the |NCS| the :file:`prj.conf` file is the main software related configuration source owned by the application.
You can provide additional files with software configuration keeping the name pattern :file:`prj_myname.conf`.

> Each provided :file:`prj.conf` file is meant to be used independently (they don't overlay each other).

Reviewer: Worth defining the relationship between the configuration files and configuration sets: "Each provided :file:`prj_mybuildtype.conf` file results in a distinct configuration set with build type ``mybuildtype``"

Reviewer 5: I tried to do it but seems. There should be some description and an example later in the text. I wanted to introduce it gradually. It may be that this failed :(

Reviewer: I mean, it can be inferred from the example, but maybe it could be put more clearly.

.. build_types_overview_start

The application is defined by a set of configuration files that provide definitions related to software and hardware, which together form the *build type* of the application.

> The build type specifies which features the application is going to use and how it is going to behave.

Reviewer 4: Looking at updating this page with relevant details:
http://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/scripts/partition_manager/partition_manager.html#configuring-static-partitions

For convenience, you can define multiple build types to quickly switch the application behavior.

> The most common example is to switch between ``release`` and ``debug`` variants of the application.

Reviewer 3: Delete thes two lines. Redundant with https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/6121/files#r763870909

Author: Done.

In the |NCS|, you can define multiple build types.
Select the build type for building the application by providing a reference to a specific build type file.
This allows you to use different sets of configuration options for each board.

The :file:`prj.conf` file is the main source for the :ref:`configure_application_sw`, owned by the application.
You can create additional :file:`conf` files with specific software configuration set by following the name pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`, where *<buildtype>* is replaced by the name of the build type (see :ref:`gs_modifying_build_types_creating`).

Each provided :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf` file is meant to be used independently, meaning that they do not overlay each other.
The *<buildtype>* does not need to be explicitly specified.

> The build system will infer it from the :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf` file specified with the ``CONF_FILE`` variable.

Reviewer 3: Everything from 276 to 288 should be deleted.

Author: Done.

When building the application, you can use the ``CONF_FILE`` variable to define the configuration file name.
The |NCS| build system propagates the information about the detected build type during the build process.

> This is done for both the application and its child images.

Reviewer 3: The user had no reason this would not apply to child images.

Delete everything from 292 to 290. It is redundant with https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/6121/files#r763870909

Author: Done.

.. build_types_overview_end

For an example how to select a build type, see the `Selecting a build type from command line`_ section.

> 

Reviewer 3: Delete the note below.

Of course it's optional.

And it's not a feature specific to NCS any more, perhaps it was one day.

Author: Done.

.. build_types_overview_start

> When the ``CONF_FILE`` variable contains a single file and this file follows the naming pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the ``CONF_FILE`` variable contains a single file and this file follows the naming pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`, then the build type will be inferred to be *<buildtype>*.
```

These two sentences should be combined since it is a conditional sentence.

.. build_types_overview_start

> When the ``CONF_FILE`` variable contains a single file and this file follows the naming pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`, then the build type will be inferred to be *<buildtype>*.

Reviewer 3: Add a sentence here:

"Also, if file :file:`boards/<BOARD>_<build>.conf` exists in same folder as :file:`prj<build>.conf`, the result of merging :file:`prj_<build>.conf` and :file:`boards/<BOARD>_<build>.conf` is used."

The build type cannot be set explicitly.
The *<buildtype>* can be any string, but it is common to use ``release`` and ``debug``.

For information about how to set variables, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

> In case there are other configuration files that you would like to modify, such as Partition Manager :ref:`static configuration <ug_pm_static>` or any child image configuration, you need to create a separate configuration file for them using the same naming pattern.
> For example, the file for the Partition Manager static configuration would be called :file:`pm_static_release.yaml`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The static Partition Manager configuration can also be made dependent on the build type. When the build type has been inferred the file :file:`pm_static_<buildtype>.yml` will have precedence over :file:`pm_static.yml`.
```

We need to be explicit if the build type changes the static yaml file used, or if it just changes the order in which static yaml files are checked for existence.

> For example, the file for the Partition Manager static configuration would be called :file:`pm_static_release.yaml`.

Reviewer 7: ... `for release configuration` ?

.. build_types_overview_start

The application is defined by a set of configuration files that provide definitions related to software and hardware, which together form the *configuration set* of the application.
The configuration set specifies which features the application is going to use and how it is going to behave.

> For convenience, you can specify multiple configuration sets to quickly switch the application behavior.

Reviewer 3: Is specify the right word here?

Shouldn't it be define?

I can't specify to the waiter that I want fish and meat for dinner.
But I can define fish and meat for the waiter and then later specify that I want fish.

The most common example is to switch between ``release`` and ``debug`` variants of the application.

> In the |NCS|, you can define multiple build types.

Reviewer 3: Is there a one-to-one mapping between configuration sets and build types?

Do we need both terms?

Author: Unified to *build type*

Select the configuration set for building the application by providing a reference to a specific build type file.
This allows you to use different sets of configuration options for each board.

The :file:`prj.conf` file is the main source for the :ref:`configure_application_sw`, owned by the application.

> You can create additional :file:`conf` files with specific software configuration set by following the name pattern :file:`prj_buildtype.conf`, where *buildtype* is replaced by the name of the build type (see :ref:`gs_modifying_build_types_creating`).

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't we be denoting this somehow?

prj_<buildtype>.conf ?

Author: We should denote it with italics, but italics are not accepted within the file tag.

Each provided :file:`prj_buildtype.conf` file is meant to be used independently, meaning that they do not overlay each other.

> Provided that you follow the file naming pattern, the build system will use the file suffix as the name of build type.

Reviewer 3: Does the build system infer the build type, or is it specified with CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE ?

Reviewer 3: It is inferred. This is important information that should not be mentioned in a bi-sentence.

```suggestion
The *<buildtype>* does not need to be explicitly specified.
The build system will infer it from the :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf` specified with ``CONF_FILE``.
```

For example, the :file:`prj_release.conf` file specifies the ``release`` build type.
As the :file:`prj.conf` file does not have any suffix, it becomes the default build type.

When building the application, you can define configuration file name using the ``CONF_FILE`` variable.

> The |NCS| build system propagates the information about the detected build type during the build process.

Reviewer 3: This sounds like the build system infers the build type from CONF_FILE. But this is not true, right?

Reviewer 3: It is true.

A new feature I was not aware of.

Does CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE get set based on this inference?

It would be useful for app build scripts to have access to the variable that is set. The variable named should be stated.

Also, I was under the impression that this was an NCS feature based on the release notes saying so.

Since it is not we might consider cutting large parts of this.

Author: @pdunaj ?

Reviewer 3: CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE does not get set. The <build> variable is not available.

This means that the software-related configuration is not the only one to be affected.

> The build system first looks for :file:`dts` or Partition Manager configuration files that match the selected build type.

Reviewer 3: No it doesn't?

dts doesn't change depending on build type does it?

Reviewer 4: > dts doesn't change depending on build type does it?

Correct, dts doesn't change with build type.
That [feature](https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/pull/32436) was never merged as offline discussion considered this to create noise and build types wasn't considered needed for devicetree.

Author: These lines were edited to the following:

> When building the application, you can use the ``CONF_FILE`` variable to define the configuration file name.
> The |NCS| build system propagates the information about the detected build type during the build process.
> This is done for both the application and its child images.

.. build_types_overview_start

When the ``CONF_FILE`` variable contains a single file and this file follows the naming pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`, then the build type will be inferred to be *<buildtype>*.
The build type cannot be set explicitly.
The *<buildtype>* can be any string, but it is common to use ``release`` and ``debug``.

For information about how to set variables, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

The Partition Manager's :ref:`static configuration <ug_pm_static>` can also be made dependent on the build type.
When the build type has been inferred, the file :file:`pm_static_<buildtype>.yml` will have precedence over :file:`pm_static.yml`.

The child image Kconfig configuration can also be made dependent on the build type.

> The child image Kconfig file is named :file:`<child_image>.conf` instead of :file:`prj.conf`, but otherwise follows the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.

Reviewer 5: > The child image Kconfig file is named :file:`<child_image>.conf`

This is not necessarily true. The child_image configuration can still have name `prj.conf` if it resides in `child_image/its_name/` directory.

Reviewer 3: My mistake. Good catch.

.. build_types_overview_start

The application is defined by a set of configuration files that provide definitions related to software and hardware, which together form the *configuration set* of the application.
The configuration set specifies which features the application is going to use and how it is going to behave.
For convenience, you can specify multiple configuration sets to quickly switch the application behavior.
The most common example is to switch between ``release`` and ``debug`` variants of the application.

In the |NCS|, you can define multiple build types.
You can select the configuration set for building the application by providing reference to a specific build type file.
This allows you to use different sets of configuration options for each board.

In the |NCS|, the :file:`prj.conf` file is the main source for the :ref:`configure_application_sw`, owned by the application.

> You can provide additional files with software configuration by following the name pattern :file:`prj_buildtype.conf`, where *buildtype* is replaced by the name of the build type (see :ref:`gs_modifying_build_types_creating`).

Author: This is entirely optional, so I would keep `you can`.

> Each provided :file:`prj.conf` file is meant to be used independently, meaning that they do not overlay each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each provided :file:`prj_buildtype.conf` file is meant to be used independently, meaning that they do not overlay each other.
```

To create custom build type files for your application instead of using a single :file:`prj.conf` file, complete the following steps:

1. Create a new :file:`prj_buildtype.conf` in the main application folder next to the :file:`prj.conf` file, with ``buildtype`` in the file name corresponding to your build type name.
   For example, :file:`prj_release.conf`.
#. Edit the new file to set the desired Kconfig configuration options.
#. Save the changes.

In case there are other configuration files that you would like to modify, such as Partition Manager static configuration or any child image configuration, you need to create a separate configuration file for them using the same naming pattern.
For example, using the example above, the file for the Partition Manager static configuration would be called :file:`pm_static_release.yaml`.

> The Devicetree configuration does not follow this configuration pattern, as it is defined per board, not per configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Devicetree configuration does not follow this configuration pattern, as it is defined per board, not per configuration set.
```

In other words, the :file:`app_overlay.dts` is common for all configurations.

.. note::
    For an example of an application that is using build types, see the :ref:`nrf_desktop` application (:ref:`nrf_desktop_requirements_build_types`), the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application (:ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app_requirements_build_types`), or the :ref:`pelion_client` application (:ref:`pelion_client_reqs_build_types`).

Selecting a build type in the VS Code extension
===============================================

.. build_types_selection_vsc_start

To select the build type in the |VSC| extension:

1. When `Building an application`_ as described in the |VSC| extension documentation, follow the steps for setting up the build configuration.

> #. In the :guilabel:`Generate Configuration` screen, select the desired :file:`.conf` file from the :guilabel:`Configuration` drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. In the :guilabel:`Add Build Configuration` screen, select the desired :file:`.conf` file from the :guilabel:`Configuration` drop-down menu.
```

Looks like we just changed the name of this screen recently.

> #. Continue with filling in other configuration options and click :guilabel:`Generate config`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Fill in the other configuration options, if applicable, and click :guilabel:`Build Configuration`.
```

To create custom build type files for your application instead of using a single :file:`prj.conf` file, complete the following steps:

1. Create a new :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf` in the main application folder next to the :file:`prj.conf` file, with *<buildtype>* in the file name corresponding to your build type name.
   For example, :file:`prj_release.conf`.
#. Edit the new file to set the desired Kconfig configuration options.

> #. Save the changes.

Reviewer 3: Delete the above four lines.

Author: Done.

In case there are other configuration files that you would like to modify, such as Partition Manager :ref:`static configuration <ug_pm_static>` or any child image configuration, you need to create a separate configuration file for them using the same naming pattern.

> For example, using the example above, the file for the Partition Manager static configuration would be called :file:`pm_static_release.yaml`.

Reviewer 3: We should have .. build_types_overview_start consume this section and remove the "Creating build type files".

Users don't need to learn how create, save, and edit files. They just need to be taught the naming pattern semantics.

Reviewer 3: The above two sentences should be more precise and complete, as mentioned above.

And merged into the section above.

Author: Done, but please check when I push edits.

The Devicetree configuration does not follow this configuration pattern, as it is defined per board, not per build type.

> In other words, the :file:`app.overlay` is common for all configurations.

Reviewer 3: Delete the two lines above and replace with:

The Device tree configuration is not affected by the build type.

Full stop.

Device tree should be respeciting it, the only reason it is not is because we were not able to get this through review.

Author: Done.

To create custom build type files for your application instead of using a single :file:`prj.conf` file, complete the following steps:

> 1. Create a new :file:`prj_buildtype.conf` in the main application folder next to the :file:`prj.conf` file, with *buildtype* in the file name corresponding to your build type name.

Reviewer 4: Will `prj_<buildtype>.conf` render correctly ?

If it will, then I think `buildtype` should be surrounded with `<` and `>` to indicate it's just a placeholder for whatever name the user chooses.

   For example, :file:`prj_release.conf`.
#. Edit the new file to set the desired Kconfig configuration options.
#. Save the changes.

In case there are other configuration files that you would like to modify, such as Partition Manager static configuration or any child image configuration, you need to create a separate configuration file for them using the same naming pattern.
For example, using the example above, the file for the Partition Manager static configuration would be called :file:`pm_static_release.yaml`.

The Devicetree configuration does not follow this configuration pattern, as it is defined per board, not per configuration set.

> In other words, the :file:`app_overlay.dts` is common for all configurations.

Reviewer 4: do you mean `app.overlay` or are you talking about a different file ?

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_\ *selected_build_type*\.conf

For example, you can replace the *selected_build_type* variable to build the ``release`` firmware for ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` by running the following command in the project directory:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

>    west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -d build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_release.conf

Reviewer 3: Delete the chapter

"Selecting a build type from command line"

We have already stated that the build type is set by setting CONF_FILE.

Author: Let's hold off with this change until after release. There are application README files that include these lines, and I prefer not to start a domino effect where we would have to review those README files as part of this PR.

Reviewer 3: ok
